Introduction
============

Modular audio software like Kushview's Element provides a versatile and advanced 
platform for audio plugin hosting, suited for both live performance and studio 
work. Element stands out as a modular AU/LV2/VST/VST3 audio plugin host, 
enabling users to create powerful effects, racks, and instruments by connecting 
nodes to each other. This integration extends to existing hardware through 
standard protocols like :term:`MIDI`, ensuring broad compatibility and usability 
in various settings.

Element's multiplatform nature allows it to run on Linux, macOS, and Windows, 
supporting a wide range of audio formats including AU, VST, VST3, and LADSPA, 
among others. Its flexibility is further demonstrated by its ability to run 
standalone or as a plugin in a digital audio workstation (DAW). This makes it a 
valuable tool for users who want to chain plugins together into effects racks or 
instruments, play virtual instruments and effects live, or create and reuse 
complex instruments and effect graphs.

Moreover, Element's features are extensive and cater to a variety of needs. They 
include routing audio and :term:`MIDI` from anywhere to anywhere, external 
synchronization with MIDI Clock, MIDI controller mapping, sub-graphing (nesting 
graphs within each other), custom keyboard shortcuts, placeholder nodes, a 
built-in virtual keyboard, and multiple undo/redo options. Additionally, the 
software provides preloaded plugin graphs, enhancing usability for both novice 
and experienced users.

Element has also been open-sourced under the GPL license, indicating a 
community-focused approach to its development and improvement. Users are 
encouraged to contribute to the project, whether by reporting issues, submitting 
pull requests, or joining the development discussion on platforms like Discord 
and GitLab. This community involvement helps in continuously refining and 
enhancing the software to better meet the needs of its diverse user base.

For more detailed information and to explore Element's capabilities, you can 
visit the official `Kushview website <https://kushview.net/element/>`_ and its 
`GitHub page <https://github.com/kushview/element>`_.
